hello everyone welcome to the next
lecture in theory of computation and in
this lecture we will be seeing an
example about NFA and see how it behaves
all right so let's get
started okay so here we have an example
and this is the same example that we
have seen in the last lecture and we
will be analyzing this so This is
actually an NFA that accepts the set of
all strings that end with zero so this
is what this NFA does now let us pass
some strings to this as input and let us
see how it behaves so let us take two
examples the first one being one 0 0 so
the first example is 1 0 0 and since it
is a set of all strings that ends with
zero it should accept this string why
because this string ends with zero so
let us see how this NFA behaves so we
always have to start with the starting
state which is State a so I am in state
a right I start from my starting State a
and what is the first input I get input
is one on getting input one how does a
behave on getting input one what happens
a goes to itself so on getting input one
a goes to itself that is a we see from
here and then what is my next input my
next input is zero my next input is zero
this one so on getting input zero where
does a go a goes to a itself and also a
goes to B there are two transitions a it
can go either
to a
itself or it can also go to B there are
two transition a goes to either A or B
getting input zero all right now we are
in these two states right and what is my
next input my next input is again zero
my next input is again zero and what
happens let's see a on getting input
zero where does it go A on getting input
zero it goes
to
a and b right a on getting this input
zero again it goes to a itself
right here and it also goes to B it also
goes to
B and what about B I have I I am in two
states over here so I have to check for
both the states so a on getting input
this input zero it went to a and b and
what about b b on getting input zero
where does it go B on getting input zero
it goes nowhere there is nothing
mentioned means a goes nowhere so I'll
say that it goes
to five right a does not go anywhere now
is this accepted or not how do we know
at the end of the string that is at this
0o 1 0 0 when I reach the end of the
string what is my current state I am in
a b is a an accepting state or final
State no a is not but is B an accepting
state or final State yes B is an
accepting state or a final state so this
string will be accepted why because if
we are in either of the states where one
state is an accepting State then that
string will be accepted all right we
will write the we will write down
formally how can we write it down
formally we will write it down after
seeing one more
example in this example let me try for
the string 01 now should this string be
accepted by this NFA no why this NFA is
supposed to accept only the set of
strings that ends with zero but this
string ends with one so it should not be
accepted now let's see how it
behaves we always start from the
starting state that is State
a okay and this is my first input zero
right my first input is zero and a on
getting zero where does it go A goes
to a itself and also it goes to
B A goes to a itself
self and a also goes to B right now I am
in two states and I get my next input
and what is my next input my next input
is one on getting input one what happens
to these two states a where does it go A
it stays in itself on getting input one
a stays in itself and what about B on
getting input one it goes nowhere so
B goes
to five now at the end I have raed the
end of the string and at the end what is
my position I am in state a and five and
is State a the accepting state or final
State no it is not and five is also not
the accepting state so this string will
not be accepted right this string will
not be accepted now how can we formally
write down when will a string be
accepted
so we can say that if there is any way
to run the machine that ends in any set
of States out of which at least one
state is a final State then the NFA
accepts when does an NFA accept when it
ends in any set of States out of which
at least one state is a final State look
at this example we ended up in a set of
States A and B out of which b b was a
final state so this string was accepted
and the second in the second example we
ended up in a and five where none of
them were a accepting state so in this
case the NFA rejected so this is what
you have to remember when does an NFA
accept when we end in any set of States
out of which at least one state is a
final state that is is when an NFA
accepts a given input all right so I
hope this example made us clear what
kind of strings or when does an NFA
accept the strings or the inputs all
right so in the next lectures we will be
seeing more examples so thank you for
watching and see you in the next
[Music]
one